---
sidebar_position: 3
---

9 commands to check hard disk partitions and disk space on Linux
================================================================

http://www.binarytides.com/linux-command-check-disk-partitions/

Jun 16, 2014 

In this post we are taking a look at some commands that can be used to check up the partitions on your system. The commands would check what partitions there are on each disk and other details like the total size, used up space and file system etc.

## 1. fdisk => check the partitions

Fdisk is the most commonly used command to check the partitions on a disk. The fdisk command can display the partitions and details like file system type. However it does not report the size of each partitions.

    $ sudo fdisk -l

## 2. sfdisk => similar to fdisk

Sfdisk is another utility with a purpose similar to fdisk, but with more features. It can display the size of each partition in MB.

    $ sudo sfdisk -l

## 3. cfdisk => partition editor

Cfdisk is a linux partition editor with an interactive user interface based on ncurses. It can be used to list out the existing partitions as well as create or modify them.

Here is an example of how to use cfdisk to list the partitions.

Cfdisk works with one partition at a time. So if you need to see the details of a particular disk, then pass the device name to cfdisk.

    $ sudo cfdisk /dev/sdb

## 4. parted => list out partitions and modify them if needed.

Parted is yet another command line utility to list out partitions and modify them if needed.
Here is an example that lists out the partition details.

    $ sudo parted -l

## 5. df => prints out details about only mounted file systems

Df is not a partitioning utility, but prints out details about only mounted file systems. The list generated by df even includes file systems that are not real disk partitions.

Here is a simple example    

    $ df -h

Only the file systems that start with a /dev are actual devices or partitions.
Use grep to filter out real hard disk partitions/file systems.

    $ df -h | grep ^/dev

To display only real disk partitions along with partition type, use df like this

    $ df -h --output=source,fstype,size,used,avail,pcent,target -x tmpfs -x devtmpfs

Note that df shows only the mounted file systems or partitions and not all.

## 7. lsblk => Lists out all the storage blocks

Lists out all the storage blocks, which includes disk partitions and optical drives. Details include the total size of the partition/block and the mount point if any.

Does not report the used/free disk space on the partitions.

    $ lsblk

If there is no MOUNTPOINT, then it means that the file system is not yet mounted. For cd/dvd this means that there is no disk.

Lsblk is capbale of displaying more information about each device like the label and model. Check out the man page for more information

## 8. blkid => Prints the block device

Prints the block device (partitions and storage media) attributes like uuid and file system type. Does not report the space on the partitions.
    
    $ sudo blkid

